A soothsayer bids you beware the ides of March. Not I. I am not gamesome: I do lack some part Of that quick spirit that is in Antony. Let me not hinder, Cassius, your desires; I'll leave you. Cassius, Be not deceiv'd: if I have veil'd my look, I turn the trouble of my countenance Merely upon myself. Vexed I am Of late with passions of some difference, Conceptions only proper to myself, Which give some soil perhaps to my behaviours; But let not therefore my good friends be griev'd,— Among which number, Cassius, be you one,— Nor construe any further my neglect, Than that poor Brutus, with himself at war, Forgets the shows of love to other men. No, Cassius; for the eye sees not itself, But by reflection, by some other things. Into what dangers would you lead me, Cassius, That you would have me seek into myself For that which is not in me? What means this shouting? I do fear the people Choose Caesar for their king. I would not, Cassius; yet I love him well. But wherefore do you hold me here so long? What is it that you would impart to me? If it be aught toward the general good, Set honour in one eye and death i' the other, And I will look on both indifferently; For let the gods so speed me as I love The name of honour more than I fear death. Another general shout! I do believe that these applauses are For some new honours that are heaped on Caesar. That you do love me, I am nothing jealous; What you would work me to, I have some aim: How I have thought of this and of these times, I shall recount hereafter; for this present, I would not, so with love I might entreat you, Be any further mov'd. What you have said I will consider; what you have to say I will with patience hear, and find a time Both meet to hear and answer such high things. Till then, my noble friend, chew upon this: Brutus had rather be a villager Than to repute himself a son of Rome Under these hard conditions as this time Is like to lay upon us. The games are done and Caesar is returning. I will do so. But, look you, Cassius, The angry spot doth glow on Caesar's brow, And all the rest look like a chidden train: Calphurnia's cheek is pale, and Cicero Looks with such ferret and such fiery eyes As we have seen him in the Capitol, Being cross'd in conference by some senators. Ay, Casca; tell us what hath chanc'd to-day, That Caesar looks so sad. I should not then ask Casca what had chanc'd. What was the second noise for? Was the crown offered him thrice? Tell us the manner of it, gentle Casca. 'Tis very like: he hath the falling-sickness. What said he, when he came unto himself? And after that he came, thus sad, away? What a blunt fellow is this grown to be! He was quick mettle when he went to school. And so it is. For this time I will leave you: To-morrow, if you please to speak with me, I will come home to you; or, if you will, Come home to me, and I will wait for you. What, Lucius! ho! I cannot, by the progress of the stars, Give guess how near to day. Lucius, I say! I would it were my fault to sleep so soundly. When, Lucius, when! Awake, I say! what, Lucius! Get me a taper in my study, Lucius: When it is lighted, come and call me here. It must be by his death: and, for my part, I know no personal cause to spurn at him, But for the general. He would be crown'd: How that might change his nature, there's the question: It is the bright day that brings forth the adder; And that craves wary walking. Crown him?—that! And then, I grant, we put a sting in him, That at his will he may do danger with. The abuse of greatness is when it disjoins Remorse from power; and, to speak truth of Caesar, I have not known when his affections sway'd More than his reason. But 'tis a common proof, That lowliness is young ambition's ladder, Whereto the climber-upward turns his face; But when he once attains the upmost round, He then unto the ladder turns his back, Looks in the clouds, scorning the base degrees By which he did ascend. So Caesar may: Then, lest he may, prevent. And, since the quarrel Will bear no colour for the thing he is, Fashion it thus; that what he is, augmented, Would run to these and these extremities; And therefore think him as a serpent's egg Which, hatch'd, would, as his kind, grow mischievous, And kill him in the shell. Get you to bed again; it is not day. Is not to-morrow, boy, the ides of March? Look in the calendar, and bring me word. The exhalations whizzing in the air Give so much light that I may read by them. Brutus, thou sleep'st: awake and see thyself. Shall Rome, &c. Speak, strike, redress! Brutus, thou sleep'st: awake! Such instigations have been often dropp'd Where I have took them up. 'Shall Rome, &c.' Thus must I piece it out: Shall Rome stand under one man's awe? What, Rome? My ancestors did from the streets of Rome The Tarquin drive, when he was call'd a king. 'Speak, strike, redress!' Am I entreated To speak, and strike? O Rome! I make thee promise; If the redress will follow, thou receiv'st Thy full petition at the hand of Brutus! 'Tis good. Go to the gate: somebody knocks. Since Cassius first did whet me against Caesar, I have not slept. Between the acting of a dreadful thing And the first motion, all the interim is Like a phantasma, or a hideous dream: The genius and the mortal instruments Are then in council; and the state of man, Like to a little kingdom, suffers then The nature of an insurrection. Is he alone? Do you know them? Let 'em enter. They are the faction. O conspiracy! Sham'st thou to show thy dangerous brow by night, When evils are most free? O! then by day Where wilt thou find a cavern dark enough To mask thy monstrous visage? Seek none, conspiracy; Hide it in smiles and affability: For if thou path, thy native semblance on, Not Erebus itself were dim enough To hide thee from prevention. I have been up this hour, awake all night. Know I these men that come along with you? He is welcome hither. He is welcome too. They are all welcome. What watchful cares do interpose themselves Betwixt your eyes and night? Here lies the east: doth not the day break here? Give me your hands all over, one by one. No, not an oath: if not the face of men, The sufferance of our souls, the time's abuse, If these be motives weak, break off betimes, And every man hence to his idle bed; So let high-sighted tyranny range on, Till each man-drop by lottery. But if these, As I am sure they do, bear fire enough To kindle cowards and to steel with valour The melting spirits of women, then, countrymen, What need we any spur but our own cause To prick us to redress? what other bond Than secret Romans, that have spoke the word And will not palter? and what other oath Than honesty to honesty engag'd, That this shall be, or we will fall for it? Swear priests and cowards and men cautelous, Old feeble carrions and such suffering souls That welcome wrongs; unto bad causes swear Such creatures as men doubt; but do not stain The even virtue of our enterprise, Nor th' insuppressive mettle of our spirits, To think that or our cause or our performance Did need an oath; when every drop of blood That every Roman bears, and nobly bears, Is guilty of a several bastardy, If he do break the smallest particle Of any promise that hath pass'd from him. O! name him not: let us not break with him; For he will never follow any thing That other men begin. Shall no man else be touch'd but only Caesar? Our course will seem too bloody, Caius Cassius, To cut the head off and then hack the limbs, Like wrath in death and envy afterwards; For Antony is but a limb of Caesar. Let us be sacrificers, but not butchers, Caius. We all stand up against the spirit of Caesar; And in the spirit of men there is no blood: O! then that we could come by Caesar's spirit, And not dismember Caesar. But, alas! Caesar must bleed for it. And, gentle friends, Let's kill him boldly, but not wrathfully; Let's carve him as a dish fit for the gods, Not hew him as a carcass fit for hounds: And let our hearts, as subtle masters do, Stir up their servants to an act of rage, And after seem to chide 'em. This shall make Our purpose necessary and not envious; Which so appearing to the common eyes, We shall be call'd purgers, not murderers. And, for Mark Antony, think not of him; For he can do no more than Caesar's arm When Caesar's head is off. Alas! good Cassius, do not think of him: If he love Caesar, all that he can do Is to himself, take thought and die for Caesar: And that were much he should; for he is given To sports, to wildness, and much company. Peace! count the clock. Never fear that: if he be so resolv'd, I can o'ersway him; for he loves to hear That unicorns may be betray'd with trees, And bears with glasses, elephants with holes, Lions with toils, and men with flatterers; But when I tell him he hates flatterers, He says he does, being then most flattered. Let me work; For I can give his humour the true bent, And I will bring him to the Capitol. By the eighth hour: is that the uttermost? Now, good Metellus, go along by him: He loves me well, and I have given him reasons; Send him but hither, and I'll fashion him. Good gentlemen, look fresh and merrily; Let not our looks put on our purposes, But bear it as our Roman actors do, With untir'd spirits and formal constancy: And so good morrow to you every one. Boy! Lucius! Fast asleep? It is no matter; Enjoy the honey-heavy dew of slumber: Thou hast no figures nor no fantasies Which busy care draws in the brains of men; Therefore thou sleep'st so sound. Portia, what mean you? Wherefore rise you now? It is not for your health thus to commit Your weak condition to the raw cold morning. I am not well in health, and that is all. Why, so I do. Good Portia, go to bed. Kneel not, gentle Portia. You are my true and honourable wife, As dear to me as are the ruddy drops That visit my sad heart. O ye gods! Render me worthy of this noble wife. Hark, hark! one knocks. Portia, go in awhile; And by and by thy bosom shall partake The secrets of my heart. All my engagements I will construe to thee, All the charactery of my sad brows. Leave me with haste. Lucius, who's that knocks? Caius Ligarius, that Metellus spoke of. Boy, stand aside. Caius Ligarius! how? O! what a time have you chose out, brave Caius, To wear a kerchief. Would you were not sick. Such an exploit have I in hand, Ligarius, Had you a healthful ear to hear of it. A piece of work that will make sick men whole. That must we also. What it is, my Caius, I shall unfold to thee as we are going To whom it must be done. Follow me then. Caesar, all hail! Good morrow, worthy Caesar: I come to fetch you to the senate-house. Most mighty Caesar, let me know some cause, Lest I be laugh'd at when I tell them so. This dream is all amiss interpreted; It was a vision fair and fortunate: Your statue spouting blood in many pipes, In which so many smiling Romans bath'd, Signifies that from you great Rome shall suck Reviving blood, and that great men shall press For tinctures, stains, relics, and cognizance. This by Calphurnia's dream is signified. I have, when you have heard what I can say: And know it now: the senate have concluded To give this day a crown to mighty Caesar. If you shall send them word you will not come, Their minds may change. Besides, it were a mock Apt to be render'd, for some one to say 'Break up the senate till another time, When Caesar's wife shall meet with better dreams.' If Caesar hide himself, shall they not whisper 'Lo! Caesar is afraid?' Pardon me, Caesar; for my dear dear love To your proceeding bids me tell you this, And reason to my love is liable. Caesar, 'tis strucken eight. That every like is not the same, O Caesar! The heart of Brutus yearns to think upon. Trebonius doth desire you to o'er-read, At your best leisure, this his humble suit. What said Popilius Lena? Look, how he makes to Caesar: mark him. Cassius, be constant: Popilius Lena speaks not of our purposes; For, look, he smiles, and Caesar doth not change. Where is Metellus Cimber? Let him go, And presently prefer his suit to Caesar. He is address'd; press near and second him. I kiss thy hand, but not in flattery, Caesar; Desiring thee, that Publius Cimber may Have an immediate freedom of repeal. Great Caesar,— People and senators be not affrighted; Fly not; stand still; ambition's debt is paid. And Cassius too. Where's Publius? Talk not of standing. Publius, good cheer; There is no harm intended to your person, Nor to no Roman else; so tell them, Publius. Do so; and let no man abide this deed But we the doers. Fates, we will know your pleasures. That we shall die, we know; 'tis but the time And drawing days out, that men stand upon. Grant that, and then is death a benefit: So are we Caesar's friends, that have abridg'd His time of fearing death. Stoop, Romans, stoop, And let us bathe our hands in Caesar's blood Up to the elbows, and besmear our swords: Then walk we forth, even to the market-place; And waving our red weapons o'er our heads, Let's all cry, 'Peace, freedom, and liberty!' How many times shall Caesar bleed in sport, That now on Pompey's basis lies along No worthier than the dust! What! shall we forth? Soft! who comes here? A friend of Antony's. Thy master is a wise and valiant Roman; I never thought him worse. Tell him, so please him come unto this place, He shall be satisfied; and, by my honour, Depart untouch'd. I know that we shall have him well to friend. But here comes Antony. Welcome, Mark Antony. O Antony! beg not your death of us. Though now we must appear bloody and cruel, As, by our hands and this our present act, You see we do, yet see you but our hands And this the bleeding business they have done: Our hearts you see not; they are pitiful; And pity to the general wrong of Rome— As fire drives out fire, so pity pity— Hath done this deed on Caesar. For your part, To you our swords have leaden points, Mark Antony; Our arms, in strength of malice, and our hearts Of brothers' temper, do receive you in With all kind love, good thoughts, and reverence. Only be patient till we have appeas'd The multitude, beside themselves with fear, And then we will deliver you the cause Why I, that did love Caesar when I struck him, Have thus proceeded. Or else were this a savage spectacle. Our reasons are so full of good regard That were you, Antony, the son of Caesar, You should be satisfied. You shall, Mark Antony. By your pardon; I will myself into the pulpit first, And show the reason of our Caesar's death: What Antony shall speak, I will protest He speaks by leave and by permission, And that we are contented Caesar shall Have all true rites and lawful ceremonies. It shall advantage more than do us wrong. Mark Antony, here, take you Caesar's body. You shall not in your funeral speech blame us, But speak all good you can devise of Caesar, And say you do 't by our permission; Else shall you not have any hand at all About his funeral; and you shall speak In the same pulpit whereto I am going, After my speech is ended. Prepare the body then, and follow us. Then follow me, and give me audience, friends. Cassius, go you into the other street, And part the numbers. Those that will hear me speak, let 'em stay here; Those that will follow Cassius, go with him; And public reasons shall be rendered Of Caesar's death. Be patient till the last. Romans, countrymen, and lovers! hear me for my cause; and be silent, that you may hear: believe me for mine honour, and have respect to mine honour, that you may believe: censure me in your wisdom, and awake your senses, that you may the better judge. If there be any in this assembly, any dear friend of Caesar's, to him I say, that Brutus' love to Caesar was no less than his. If then that friend demand why Brutus rose against Caesar, this is my answer: Not that I loved Caesar less, but that I loved Rome more. Had you rather Caesar were living, and die all slaves, than that Caesar were dead, to live all free men? As Caesar loved me, I weep for him; as he was fortunate, I rejoice at it; as he was valiant, I honour him; but, as he was ambitious, I slew him. There is tears for his love; joy for his fortune; honour for his valour; and death for his ambition. Who is here so base that would be a bondman? If any, speak; for him have I offended. Who is here so rude that would not be a Roman? If any, speak; for him have I offended. Who is here so vile that will not love his country? If any, speak; for him have I offended. I pause for a reply. Then none have I offended. I have done no more to Caesar, than you shall do to Brutus. The question of his death is enrolled in the Capitol; his glory not extenuated, wherein he was worthy, nor his offences enforced, for which he suffered death. Here comes his body, mourned by Mark Antony: who, though he had no hand in his death, shall receive the benefit of his dying, a place in the commonwealth; as which of you shall not? With this I depart: that, as I slew my best lover for the good of Rome, I have the same dagger for myself, when it shall please my country to need my death. My countrymen,— Good countrymen, let me depart alone, And, for my sake, stay here with Antony. Do grace to Caesar's corpse, and grace his speech Tending to Caesar's glories, which Mark Antony, By our permission, is allow'd to make. I do entreat you, not a man depart, Save I alone, till Antony have spoke. Stand, ho! What now, Lucilius! is Cassius near? He greets me well. Your master, Pindarus, In his own change, or by ill officers, Hath given me some worthy cause to wish Things done, undone; but, if he be at hand, I shall be satisfied. He is not doubted. A word, Lucilius; How he receiv'd you, let me be resolv'd. Thou hast describ'd A hot friend cooling. Ever note, Lucilius, When love begins to sicken and decay, It useth an enforced ceremony. There are no tricks in plain and simple faith; But hollow men, like horses hot at hand, Make gallant show and promise of their mettle; But when they should endure the bloody spur, They fall their crests, and, like deceitful jades, Sink in the trial. Comes his army on? Hark! he is arriv'd. March gently on to meet him. Stand, ho! Speak the word along. Judge me, you gods! Wrong I mine enemies? And, if not so, how should I wrong a brother? Cassius, be content; Speak your griefs softly: I do know you well. Before the eyes of both our armies here, Which should perceive nothing but love from us, Let us not wrangle: bid them move away; Then in my tent, Cassius, enlarge your griefs, And I will give you audience. Lucilius, do you the like; and let no man Come to our tent till we have done our conference. Let Lucius and Titinius guard our door. You wrong'd yourself to write in such a case. Let me tell you, Cassius, you yourself Are much condemn'd to have an itching palm; To sell and mart your offices for gold To undeservera. The name of Cassius honours this corruption, And chastisement doth therefore hide his head. Remember March, the ides of March remember: Did not great Julius bleed for justice' sake? What villain touch'd his body, that did stab, And not for justice? What! shall one of us, That struck the foremost man of all this world But for supporting robbers, shall we now Contaminate our fingers with base bribes, And sell the mighty space of our large honours For so much trash as may be grasped thus? I had rather be a dog, and bay the moon, Than such a Roman. Go to; you are not, Cassius. I say you are not. Away, slight man! Hear me, for I will speak. Must I give way and room to your rash choler? Shall I be frighted when a madman stares? All this! ay, more: fret till your proud heart break; Go show your slaves how choleric you are, And make your bondmen tremble. Must I budge? Must I observe you? Must I stand and crouch Under your testy humour? By the gods, You shall digest the venom of your spleen, Though it do split you; for, from this day forth, I'll use you for my mirth, yea, for my laughter, When you are waspish. You say you are a better soldier: Let it appear so; make your vaunting true, And it shall please me well. For mine own part, I shall be glad to learn of noble men. If you did, I care not. Peace, peace! you durst not so have tempted him. No. For your life you durst not. You have done that you should be sorry for. There is no terror, Cassius, in your threats; For I am arm'd so strong in honesty That they pass by me as the idle wind, Which I respect not. I did send to you For certain sums of gold, which you denied me; For I can raise no money by vile means: By heaven, I had rather coin my heart, And drop my blood for drachmas, than to wring From the hard hands of peasants their vile trash By any indirection. I did send To you for gold to pay my legions, Which you denied me: was that done like Cassius? Should I have answer'd Caius Cassius so? When Marcus Brutus grows so covetous, To lock such rascal counters from his friends, Be ready, gods, with all your thunderbolts; Dash him to pieces! You did. I do not, till you practise them on me. I do not like your faults. A flatterer's would not, though they do appear As huge as high Olympus. Sheathe your dagger: Be angry when you will, it shall have scope; Do what you will, dishonour shall be humour. O Cassius! you are yoked with a lamb That carries anger as the flint bears fire, Who, much enforced, shows a hasty spark, And straight is cold again. When I spoke that I was ill-temper'd too. And my heart too. What's the matter? Yes, Cassius; and from henceforth When you are over-earnest with your Brutus, He'll think your mother chides, and leave you so. Get you hence, sirrah; saucy fellow, hence! I'll know his humour, when he knows his time: What should the wars do with these jigging fools? Companion, hence! Lucilius and Titinius, bid the commanders Prepare to lodge their companies to-night. Lucius, a bowl of wine! O Cassius! I am sick of many griefs. No man bears sorrow better: Portia is dead. She is dead. Impatient of my absence, And grief that young Octavius with Mark Antony Have made themselves so strong;—for with her death That tidings came:—with this she fell distract, And, her attendants absent, swallow'd fire. Even so. Speak no more of her. Give me a bowl of wine. In this I bury all unkindness, Cassius. Come in, Titinius. Welcome, good Messala. Now sit we close about this taper here, And call in question our necessities. No more, I pray you. Messala, I have here received letters, That young Octavius and Mark Antony Come down upon us with a mighty power, Bending their expedition towards Philippi. With what addition? Therein our letters do not well agree; Mine speak of seventy senators that died By their proscriptions, Cicero being one. No, Messala. Nothing, Messala. Why ask you? Hear you aught of her in yours? Now, as you are a Roman, tell me true. Why, farewell, Portia. We must die, Messala: With meditating that she must die once, I have the patience to endure it now. Well, to our work alive. What do you think Of marching to Philippi presently? Your reason? Good reasons must, of force, give place to better, The people 'twixt Philippi and this ground Do stand but in a forc'd affection; For they have grudg'd us contribution: The enemy, marching along by them, By them shall make a fuller number up, Come on refresh'd, new-added, and encourag'd; From which advantage shall we cut him off, If at Philippi we do face him there, These people at our back. Under your pardon. You must note beside, That we have tried the utmost of our friends, Our legions are brim-full, our cause is ripe: The enemy increaseth every day; We, at the height, are ready to decline. There is a tide in the affairs of men, Which, taken at the flood, leads on to fortune; Omitted, all the voyage of their life Is bound in shallows and in miseries. On such a full sea are we now afloat; And we must take the current when it serves, Or lose our ventures. The deep of night is crept upon our talk, And nature must obey necessity, Which we will niggard with a little rest. There is no more to say? Lucius! My gown. Farewell, good Messala: Good-night, Titinius. Noble, noble Cassius, Good-night, and good repose. Every thing is well. Good-night, good brother. Farewell, every one. Give me the gown. Where is thy instrument? What! thou speak'st drowsily? Poor knave, I blame thee not; thou art o'erwatch'd. Call Claudius and some other of my men; I'll have them sleep on cushions in my tent. I pray you, sirs, lie in my tent and sleep: It may be I shall raise you by and by On business to my brother Cassius. I will not have it so; lie down, good sirs; It may be I shall otherwise bethink me. Look, Lucius, here's the book I sought for so; I put it in the pocket of my gown. Bear with me, good boy, I am much forgetful. Canst thou hold up thy heavy eyes awhile, And touch thy instrument a strain or two? It does, my boy: I trouble thee too much, but thou art willing. I should not urge thy duty past thy might; I know young bloods look for a time of rest. It was well done, and thou shalt sleep again; I will not hold thee long: if I do live, I will be good to thee. This is a sleepy tune: O murderous slumber! Lay'st thou thy leaden mace upon my boy, That plays thee music? Gentle knave, good-night; I will not do thee so much wrong to wake thee. If thou dost nod, thou break'st thy instrument; I'll take it from thee; and, good boy, good-night. Let me see, let me see; is not the leaf turn'd down Where I left reading? Here it is, I think. How ill this taper burns! Ha! who comes here? I think it is the weakness of mine eyes That shapes this monstrous apparition. It comes upon me. Art thou any thing? Art thou some god, some angel, or some devil, That mak'st my blood cold and my hair to stare? Speak to me what thou art. Why com'st thou? Well; then I shall see thee again? Why, I will see thee at Philippi then. Now I have taken heart thou vanishest: Ill spirit, I would hold more talk with thee. Boy, Lucius! Varro! Claudius! Sirs, awake! Claudius! He thinks he still is at his instrument. Lucius, awake! Didst thou dream, Lucius, that thou so criedst out? Yes, that thou didst. Didst thou see any thing? Sleep again, Lucius. Sirrah, Claudius! Fellow thou! awake! Why did you so cry out, sirs, in your sleep? Ay: saw you any thing? Go, and commend me to my brother Cassius. Bid him set on his powers betimes before, And we will follow. They stand, and would have parley. Words before blows: is it so, countrymen? Good words are better than bad strokes, Octavius. O! yes, and soundless too; For you have stol'n their buzzing, Antony, And very wisely threat before you sting. Caesar, thou canst not die by traitors' hands, Unless thou bring'st them with thee. O! if thou wert the noblest of thy strain, Young man, thou couldst not die more honourable. Ho! Lucilius! hark, a word with you. Even so, Lucilius. Even by the rule of that philosophy By which I did blame Cato for the death Which he did give himself; I know not how, But I do find it cowardly and vile, For fear of what might fall, so to prevent The time of life: arming myself with patience, To stay the providence of some high powers That govern us below. No, Cassius, no: think not, thou noble Roman, That ever Brutus will go bound to Rome; He bears too great a mind: but this same day Must end that work the ides of March begun; And whether we shall meet again I know not. Therefore our everlasting farewell take: For ever, and for ever, farewell, Cassius! If we do meet again, why, we shall smile; If not, why then, this parting was well made. Why, then, lead on. O! that a man might know The end of this day's business, ere it come; But it sufficeth that the day will end, And then the end is known. Come, ho! away! Ride, ride, Messala, ride, and give these bills Unto the legions on the other side. Let them set on at once, for I perceive But cold demeanour in Octavius' wing, And sudden push gives them the overthrow. Ride, ride, Messala: let them all come down. Where, where, Messala, doth his body lie? Titinius' face is upward. O Julius Caesar! thou art mighty yet! Thy spirit walks abroad, and turns our swords In our own proper entrails. Are yet two Romans living such as these? The last of all the Romans, fare thee well! It is impossible that ever Rome Should breed thy fellow. Friends, I owe more tears To this dead man than you shall see me pay.— I shall find time, Cassius, I shall find time.— Come therefore, and to Thassos send his body: His funerals shall not be in our camp, Lest it discomfort us. Lucilius, come; And come, young Cato;—let us to the field. Labeo and Flavius, set our battles on:— 'Tis three o'clock; and, Romans, yet ere night We shall try fortune in a second fight. Yet, countrymen, O! yet hold up your heads! And I am Brutus, Marcus Brutus, I; Brutus, my country's friend; know me for Brutus! Come, poor remains of friends, rest on this rock. Sit thee down, Clitus: slaying is the word; It is a deed in fashion. Hark thee, Clitus. Peace, then! no words. Hark thee, Dardanius. Come hither, good Volumnius: list a word. Why this, Volumnius: The ghost of Caesar hath appear'd to me Two several times by night; at Sardis once, And this last night here in Philippi fields. I know my hour is come. Nay, I am sure it is, Volumnius. Thou seest the world, Volumnius, how it goes; Our enemies have beat us to the pit: It is more worthy to leap in ourselves, Than tarry till they push us. Good Volumnius, Thou know'st that we two went to school together: Even for that our love of old, I prithee, Hold thou my sword-hilts, whilst I run on it. Farewell to you; and you; and you, Volumnius. Strato, thou hast been all this while asleep; Farewell to thee too, Strato. Countrymen, My heart doth joy that yet, in all my life, I found no man but he was true to me. I shall have glory by this losing day, More than Octavius and Mark Antony By this vile conquest shall attain unto. So fare you well at once; for Brutus' tongue Hath almost ended his life's history: Night hangs upon mine eyes; my bones would rest, That have but labour'd to attain this hour. Hence! I will follow. I prithee, Strato, stay thou by thy lord: Thou art a fellow of a good respect; Thy life hath had some smatch of honour in it: Hold then my sword, and turn away thy face, While I do run upon it. Wilt thou, Strato? Farewell, good Strato.—Caesar, now be still; I kill'd not thee with half so good a will. 