Attend the Lords of France and Burgundy, Gloucester. Meantime we shall express our darker purpose. Give me the map there. Know that we have divided In three our kingdom; and 'tis our fast intent To shake all cares and business from our age, Conferring them on younger strengths, while we Unburden'd crawl toward death. Our son of Cornwall, And you, our no less loving son of Albany, We have this hour a constant will to publish Our daughters' several dowers, that future strife May be prevented now. The princes, France and Burgundy, Great rivals in our youngest daughter's love, Long in our court have made their amorous sojourn, And here are to be answer'd. Tell me, my daughters,— Since now we will divest us both of rule, Interest of territory, cares of state,— Which of you shall we say doth love us most? That we our largest bounty may extend Where nature doth with merit challenge. Goneril, Our eldest-born, speak first. Of all these bounds, even from this line to this, With shadowy forests and with champains rich'd, With plenteous rivers and wide-skirted meads, We make thee lady: to thine and Albany's issue Be this perpetual. What says our second daughter, Our dearest Regan, wife to Cornwall? Speak. To thee and thine, hereditary ever, Remain this ample third of our fair kingdom, No less in space, validity, and pleasure, Than that conferr'd on Goneril. Now, our joy, Although our last, not least; to whose young love The vines of France and milk of Burgundy Strive to be interess'd; what can you say to draw A third more opulent than your sisters? Speak. Nothing? Nothing will come of nothing: speak again. How, how, Cordelia! mend your speech a little, Lest you may mar your fortunes. But goes thy heart with this? So young, and so untender? Let it be so; thy truth then be thy dower: For, by the sacred radiance of the sun, The mysteries of Hecate and the night, By all the operation of the orbs From whom we do exist and cease to be, Here I disclaim all my paternal care, Propinquity and property of blood, And as a stranger to my heart and me Hold thee from this for ever. The barbarous Scythian, Or he that makes his generation messes To gorge his appetite, shall to my bosom Be as well neighbour'd, pitied, and reliev'd, As thou my sometime daughter. Peace, Kent! Come not between the dragon and his wrath. I lov'd her most, and thought to set my rest On her kind nursery. Hence, and avoid my sight! So be my grave my peace, as here I give Her father's heart from her! Call France. Who stirs? Call Burgundy. Cornwall and Albany, With my two daughters' dowers digest the third; Let pride, which she calls plainness, marry her. I do invest you jointly with my power, Pre-eminence, and all the large effects That troop with majesty. Ourself by monthly course, With reservation of a hundred knights, By you to be sustain'd, shall our abode Make with you by due turn. Only we shall retain The name and all th' addition to a king; The sway, revenue, execution of the rest, Beloved sons, be yours: which to confirm, This coronet part between you. The bow is bent and drawn; make from the shaft. Kent, on thy life, no more. Out of my sight! Now, by Apollo,— O vassal! miscreant! Hear me, recreant! On thine allegiance, hear me! Since thou hast sought to make us break our vow,— Which we durst never yet,—and, with strain'd pride To come betwixt our sentence and our power,— Which nor our nature nor our place can hear,— Our potency made good, take thy reward. Five days we do allot thee for provision To shield thee from diseases of the world; And, on the sixth, to turn thy hated back Upon our kingdom: if, on the tenth day following Thy banish'd trunk be found in our dominions, The moment is thy death. Away! By Jupiter, This shall not be revok'd. My Lord of Burgundy, We first address toward you, who with this king Hath rivall'd for our daughter. What, in the least, Will you require in present dower with her, Or cease your quest of love? Right noble Burgundy, When she was dear to us we did hold her so, But now her price is fall'n. Sir, there she stands: If aught within that little-seeming substance, Or all of it, with our displeasure piec'd, And nothing more, may fitly like your Grace, She's there, and she is yours. Will you, with those infirmities she owes, Unfriended, new-adopted to our hate, Dower'd with our curse, and stranger'd with our oath, Take her, or leave her? Then leave her, sir; for, by the power that made me, I tell you all her wealth.—For you, great king, I would not from your love make such a stray To match you where I hate; therefore, beseech you To avert your liking a more worthier way Than on a wretch whom nature is asham'd Almost to acknowledge hers. Better thou Hadst not been born than not to have pleas'd me better. Nothing: I have sworn; I am firm. Thou hast her, France; let her be thine, for we Have no such daughter, nor shall ever see That face of hers again, therefore be gone Without our grace, our love, our benison. Come, noble Burgundy. Let me not stay a jot for dinner: go, get it ready. How now! what art thou? What dost thou profess? What wouldst thou with us? What art thou? If thou be as poor for a subject as he is for a king, thou art poor enough. What wouldst thou? Whom wouldst thou serve? Dost thou know me, fellow? What's that? What services canst thou do? How old art thou? Follow me; thou shalt serve me; if I like thee no worse after dinner I will not part from thee yet. Dinner, ho! dinner! Where's my knave? my fool? Go you and call my fool hither. You, you, sirrah, where's my daughter? What says the fellow there? Call the clotpoll back. Where's my fool, ho? I think the world's asleep. How now! where's that mongrel? Why came not the slave back to me when I called him? He would not! Ha! sayest thou so? Thou but rememberest me of mine own conception: I have perceived a most faint neglect of late; which I have rather blamed as mine own jealous curiosity than as a very pretence and purpose of unkindness: I will look further into 't. But where's my fool? I have not seen him this two days. No more of that; I have noted it well. Go you and tell my daughter I would speak with her. Go you, call hither my fool. O! you sir, you, come you hither, sir. Who am I, sir? 'My lady's father!' my lord's knave: you whoreson dog! you slave! you cur! Do you bandy looks with me, you rascal? I thank thee, fellow; thou servest me, and I'll love thee. Now, my friendly knave, I thank thee: there's earnest of thy service. How now, my pretty knave! how dost thou? Why, my boy? Take heed, sirrah; the whip. A pestilent gall to me! Do. Why, no, boy; nothing can be made out of nothing. A bitter fool! No, lad; teach me. Dost thou call me fool, boy? What two crowns shall they be? When were you wont to be so full of songs, sirrah? An you lie, sirrah, we'll have you whipped. How now, daughter! what makes that frontlet on? Methinks you are too much of late i' the frown. Are you our daughter? Does any here know me? This is not Lear: Does Lear walk thus? speak thus? Where are his eyes? Either his notion weakens, his discernings Are lethargied. Ha! waking? 'tis not so. Who is it that can tell me who I am? I would learn that; for, by the marks of sovereignty, knowledge and reason, I should be false persuaded I had daughters. Your name, fair gentlewoman? Darkness and devils! Saddle my horses; call my train together. Degenerate bastard! I'll not trouble thee: Yet have I left a daughter. Woe, that too late repents; O! sir, are you come? Is it your will? Speak, sir. Prepare my horses. Ingratitude, thou marble-hearted fiend, More hideous, when thou show'st thee in a child, Than the sea-monster. Detested kite! thou liest: My train are men of choice and rarest parts, That all particulars of duty know, And in the most exact regard support The worships of their name. O most small fault, How ugly didst thou in Cordelia show! Which, like an engine, wrench'd my frame of nature From the fix'd place, drew from my heart all love, And added to the gall. O Lear, Lear, Lear! Beat at this gate, that let thy folly in, And thy dear judgment out! Go, go, my people. It may be so, my lord. Hear, Nature, hear! dear goddess, hear! Suspend thy purpose, if thou didst intend To make this creature fruitful! Into her womb convey sterility! Dry up in her the organs of increase, And from her derogate body never spring A babe to honour her! If she must teem, Create her child of spleen, that it may live And be a thwart disnatur'd torment to her! Let it stamp wrinkles in her brow of youth, With cadent tears fret channels in her cheeks, Turn all her mother's pains and benefits To laughter and contempt, that she may feel How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is To have a thankless child! Away, away! What! fifty of my followers at a clap, Within a fortnight? I'll tell thee. Life and death! I am asham'd That thou hast power to shake my manhood thus, That these hot tears, which break from me perforce, Should make thee worth them. Blasts and fogs upon thee! Th' untented woundings of a father's curse Pierce every sense about thee! Old fond eyes, Beweep this cause again, I'll pluck ye out, And cast you, with the waters that you lose, To temper clay. Yea, is it come to this? Let it be so: I have another daughter, Who, I am sure, is kind and comfortable: When she shall hear this of thee, with her nails She'll flay thy wolvish visage. Thou shalt find That I'll resume the shape which thou dost think I have cast off for ever; thou shalt, I warrant thee. Go you before to Gloucester with these letters. Acquaint my daughter no further with any thing you know than comes from her demand out of the letter. If your diligence be not speedy I shall be there before you. Ay, boy. Ha, ha, ha! What canst tell, boy? No. I did her wrong,— No. Why? I will forget my nature. So kind a father! Be my horses ready? Because they are not eight? To take it again perforce! Monster ingratitude! How's that? O! let me not be mad, not mad, sweet heaven; Keep me in temper; I would not be mad! How now! Are the horses ready? Come, boy. 'Tis strange that they should so depart from home, And not send back my messenger. Ha! Mak'st thou this shame thy pastime? What's he that hath so much thy place mistook To set thee here? No. No, I say. No, no; they would not. By Jupiter, I swear, no. They durst not do't; They could not, would not do 't; 'tis worse than murder, To do upon respect such violent outrage. Resolve me, with all modest haste, which way Thou mightst deserve, or they impose, this usage, Coming from us. O! how this mother swells up toward my heart; Hysterica passio! down, thou climbing sorrow! Thy element's below. Where is this daughter? Follow me not; stay here. Deny to speak with me! They are sick! they are weary, They have travell'd hard to-night! Mere fetches, The images of revolt and flying off. Fetch me a better answer. Vengeance! plague! death! confusion! Fiery! what quality? Why, Gloucester, Gloucester, I'd speak with the Duke of Cornwall and his wife. Inform'd them! Dost thou understand me, man? The king would speak with Cornwall; the dear father Would with his daughter speak, commands her service: Are they inform'd of this? My breath and blood! Fiery! the fiery duke! Tell the hot duke that— No, but not yet; may be he is not well: Infirmity doth still neglect all office Whereto our health is bound; we are not ourselves When nature, being oppress'd, commands the mind To suffer with the body. I'll forbear; And am fall'n out with my more headier will, To take the indispos'd and sickly fit For the sound man. Death on my state! Wherefore Should he sit here? This act persuades me That this remotion of the duke and her Is practice only. Give me my servant forth. Go, tell the duke and's wife I'd speak with them, Now, presently: bid them come forth and hear me, Or at their chamber-door I'll beat the drum Till it cry sleep to death. O, me! my heart, my rising heart! but, down! Good morrow to you both. Regan, I think you are; I know what reason I have to think so: if thou shouldst not be glad, I would divorce me from thy mother's tomb, Sepulchring an adult'ress.—O! are you free? Some other time for that. Beloved Regan, Thy sister's naught: O Regan! she hath tied Sharp-tooth'd unkindness, like a vulture, here: I can scarce speak to thee; thou'lt not believe With how deprav'd a quality—O Regan! Say, how is that? My curses on her! Ask her forgiveness? Do you but mark how this becomes the house: 'Dear daughter, I confess that I am old; Age is unnecessary: on my knees I beg That you'll vouchsafe me raiment, bed, and food.' Never, Regan. She hath abated me of half my train; Look'd black upon me; struck me with her tongue, Most serpent-like, upon the very heart. All the stor'd vengeances of heaven fall On her ingrateful top! Strike her young bones, You taking airs, with lameness! You nimble lightnings, dart your blinding flames Into her scornful eyes! Infect her beauty, You fen-suck'd fogs, drawn by the powerful sun, To fall and blast her pride! No, Regan, thou shalt never have my curse: Thy tender-hefted nature shall not give Thee o'er to harshness: her eyes are fierce, but thine Do comfort and not burn. 'Tis not in thee To grudge my pleasures, to cut off my train, To bandy hasty words, to scant my sizes, And, in conclusion, to oppose the bolt Against my coming in: thou better know'st The offices of nature, bond of childhood, Effects of courtesy, dues of gratitude; Thy half o' the kingdom hast thou not forgot, Wherein I thee endow'd. Who put my man i' the stocks? This is a slave, whose easy-borrow'd pride Dwells in the fickle grace of her he follows. Out, varlet, from my sight! Who stock'd my servant? Regan, I have good hope Thou didst not know on 't. Who comes here? O heavens, If you do love old men, if your sweet sway Allow obedience, if yourselves are old, Make it your cause; send down and take my part! Art not asham'd to look upon this beard? O Regan, wilt thou take her by the hand? O sides! you are too tough; Will you yet hold? How came my man i' the stocks? You! did you? Return to her? and fifty men dismiss'd! No, rather I abjure all roofs, and choose To wage against the enmity o' the air; To be a comrade with the wolf and owl, Necessity's sharp pinch! Return with her! Why, the hot-blooded France, that dowerless took Our youngest born, I could as well be brought To knee his throne, and, squire-like, pension beg To keep base life afoot. Return with her! Persuade me rather to be slave and sumpter To this detested groom. I prithee, daughter, do not make me mad: I will not trouble thee, my child; farewell. We'll no more meet, no more see one another; But yet thou art my flesh, my blood, my daughter; Or rather a disease that's in my flesh, Which I must needs call mine: thou art a boil, A plague-sore, an embossed carbuncle, In my corrupted blood. But I'll not chide thee; Let shame come when it will, I do not call it: I do not bid the thunder-bearer shoot, Nor tell tales of thee to high-judging Jove. Mend when thou canst; be better at thy leisure: I can be patient; I can stay with Regan, I and my hundred knights. Is this well spoken? I gave you all— Made you my guardians, my depositaries, But kept a reservation to be follow'd With such a number. What! must I come to you With five-and-twenty? Regan, said you so? Those wicked creatures yet do look well-favour'd, When others are more wicked; not being the worst Stands in some rank of praise. I'll go with thee: Thy fifty yet doth double five-and-twenty, And thou art twice her love. O! reason not the need; our basest beggars Are in the poorest thing superfluous: Allow not nature more than nature needs, Man's life is cheap as beast's. Thou art a lady; If only to go warm were gorgeous, Why, nature needs not what thou gorgeous wear'st, Which scarcely keeps thee warm. But, for true need,— You heavens, give me that patience, patience I need! You see me here, you gods, a poor old man, As full of grief as age; wretched in both! If it be you that stir these daughters' hearts Against their father, fool me not so much To bear it tamely; touch me with noble anger, And let not women's weapons, water-drops, Stain my man's cheeks! No, you unnatural hags, I will have such revenges on you both That all the world shall—I will do such things,— What they are yet I know not,—but they shall be The terrors of the earth. You think I'll weep; No, I'll not weep: I have full cause of weeping, but this heart Shall break into a hundred thousand flaws Or ere I'll weep. O fool! I shall go mad. Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks! rage! blow! You cataracts and hurricanoes, spout Till you have drench'd our steeples, drown'd the cocks! You sulphurous and thought-executing fires, Vaunt-couriers to oak-cleaving thunderbolts, Singe my white head! And thou, all-shaking thunder, Strike flat the thick rotundity o' the world! Crack nature's moulds, all germens spill at once That make ingrateful man! Rumble thy bellyfull Spit, fire! spout, rain! Nor rain, wind, thunder, fire, are my daughters: I tax not you, you elements, with unkindness; I never gave you kingdom, call'd you children, You owe me no subscription: then, let fall Your horrible pleasure; here I stand, your slave, A poor, infirm, weak, and despis'd old man. But yet I call you servile ministers, That have with two pernicious daughters join'd Your high-engender'd battles 'gainst a head So old and white as this. O! O! 'tis foul. No, I will be the pattern of all patience; I will say nothing. Let the great gods, That keep this dreadful pother o'er our heads, Find out their enemies now. Tremble, thou wretch, That hast within thee undivulged crimes, Unwhipp'd of justice; hide thee, thou bloody hand; Thou perjur'd, and thou simular of virtue That art incestuous; caitiff, to pieces shake, That under covert and convenient seeming Hast practis'd on man's life; close pent-up guilts, Rive your concealing continents, and cry These dreadful summoners grace. I am a man More sinn'd against than sinning. My wits begin to turn. Come on, my boy. How dost, my boy? Art cold? I am cold myself. Where is this straw, my fellow? The art of our necessities is strange, That can make vile things precious. Come, your hovel. Poor fool and knave, I have one part in my heart That's sorry yet for thee. True, my good boy. Come, bring us to this hovel. Let me alone. Wilt break my heart? Thou think'st 'tis much that this contentious storm Invades us to the skin: so 'tis to thee; But where the greater malady is fix'd, The lesser is scarce felt. Thou'dst shun a bear; But if thy flight lay toward the roaring sea, Thou'dst meet the bear i' the mouth. When the mind's free The body's delicate; the tempest in my mind Doth from my senses take all feeling else Save what beats there. Filial ingratitude! Is it not as this mouth should tear this hand For lifting food to 't? But I will punish home: No, I will weep no more. In such a night To shut me out! Pour on; I will endure. In such a night as this! O Regan, Goneril! Your old kind father, whose frank heart gave all,— O! that way madness lies; let me shun that; No more of that. Prithee, go in thyself; seek thine own ease: This tempest will not give me leave to ponder On things would hurt me more. But I'll go in. In, boy; go first. You houseless poverty,— Nay, get thee in. I'll pray, and then I'll sleep. Poor naked wretches, wheresoe'er you are, That bide the pelting of this pitiless storm, How shall your houseless heads and unfed sides, Your loop'd and window'd raggedness, defend you From seasons such as these? O! I have ta'en Too little care of this. Take physic, pomp; Expose thyself to feel what wretches feel, That thou mayst shake the superflux to them, And show the heavens more just. Didst thou give all to thy two daughters? And art thou come to this? What! have his daughters brought him to this pass? Couldst thou save nothing? Didst thou give them all? Now all the plagues that in the pendulous air Hang fated o'er men's faults light on thy daughters! Death, traitor! nothing could have subdu'd nature To such a lowness, but his unkind daughters. Is it the fashion that discarded fathers Should have thus little mercy on their flesh? Judicious punishment! 'twas this flesh begot Those pelican daughters. What hast thou been? Why, thou wert better in thy grave than to answer with thy uncovered body this extremity of the skies. Is man no more than this? Consider him well. Thou owest the worm no silk, the beast no hide, the sheep no wool, the cat no perfume. Ha! here's three on's are sophisticated; thou art the thing itself; unaccommodated man is no more but such a poor, bare, forked animal as thou art. Off, off, you lendings! Come; unbutton here. What's he? First let me talk with this philosopher. What is the cause of thunder? I'll talk a word with this same learned Theban. What is your study? Let me ask you one word in private. O! cry you mercy, sir. Noble philosopher, your company. Come, let's in all. With him; I will keep still with my philosopher. Come, good Athenian. A king, a king! To have a thousand with red burning spits Come hizzing in upon 'em,— It shall be done; I will arraign them straight. Come, sit thou here, most learned justicer; Thou, sapient sir, sit here. Now, you she foxes! I'll see their trial first. Bring in their evidence. Thou robed man of justice, take thy place; And thou, his yoke-fellow of equity, Bench by his side. You are o' the commission, Sit you too. Arraign her first; 'tis Goneril. I here take my oath before this honourable assembly, she kicked the poor king her father. She cannot deny it. And here's another, whose warp'd looks proclaim What store her heart is made on. Stop her there! Arms, arms, sword, fire! Corruption in the place! False justicer, why hast thou let her 'scape? The little dogs and all, Tray, Blanch, and Sweet-heart, see, they bark at me. Then let them anatomize Regan, see what breeds about her heart. Is there any cause in nature that makes these hard hearts? You, sir, I entertain you for one of my hundred; only I do not like the fashion of your garments: you will say, they are Persian attire; but let them be changed. Make no noise, make no noise; draw the curtains: so, so, so. We'll go to supper i' the morning: so, so, so. No, they cannot touch me for coining; I am the king himself. Nature's above art in that respect. There's your press-money. That fellow handles his bow like a crow-keeper: draw me a clothier's yard. Look, look! a mouse. Peace, peace! this piece of toasted cheese will do 't. There's my gauntlet; I'll prove it on a giant. Bring up the brown bills. O! well flown, bird; i' the clout, i' the clout: hewgh! Give the word. Pass. Ha! Goneril, with a white beard! They flatter'd me like a dog, and told me I had white hairs in my beard ere the black ones were there. To say 'ay' and 'no' to everything I said! 'Ay' and 'no' too was no good divinity. When the rain came to wet me once and the wind to make me chatter, when the thunder would not peace at my bidding, there I found 'em, there I smelt 'em out. Go to, they are not men o' their words: they told me I was every thing; 'tis a lie, I am not ague-proof. Ay, every inch a king: When I do stare, see how the subject quakes. I pardon that man's life. What was thy cause? Adultery? Thou shalt not die: die for adultery! No: The wren goes to 't, and the small gilded fly Does lecher in my sight. Let copulation thrive; for Gloucester's bastard son Was kinder to his father than my daughters Got 'tween the lawful sheets. To 't luxury, pell-mell! for I lack soldiers. Behold yond simpering dame, Whose face between her forks presageth snow; That minces virtue, and does shake the head To hear of pleasure's name; The fitchew nor the soiled horse goes to 't With a more riotous appetite. Down from the waist they are Centaurs, Though women all above: But to the girdle do the gods inherit, Beneath is all the fiends': There's hell, there's darkness, there is the sulphurous pit, Burning, scalding, stench, consumption; fie, fie, fie! pah, pah! Give me an ounce of civet, good apothecary, to sweeten my imagination: there's money for thee. Let me wipe it first; it smells of mortality. I remember thine eyes well enough. Dost thou squiny at me? No, do thy worst, blind Cupid; I'll not love. Read thou this challenge; mark but the penning of it. Read. O, ho! are you there with me? No eyes in your head, nor no money in your purse? Your eyes are in a heavy case, your purse in a light: yet you see how this world goes. What! art mad? A man may see how this world goes with no eyes. Look with thine ears: see how yound justice rails upon yon simple thief. Hark, in thine ear: change places; and, handy-dandy, which is the justice, which is the thief? Thou hast seen a farmer's dog bark at a beggar? And the creature run from the cur? There thou mightst behold the great image of authority; a dog's obey'd in office. Thou rascal beadle, hold thy bloody hand! Why dost thou lash that whore? Strip thine own back; Thou hotly lust'st to use her in that kind For which thou whipp'st her. The usurer hangs the cozener. Through tatter'd clothes small vices do appear; Robes and furr'd gowns hide all. Plate sin with gold, And the strong lance of justice hurtless breaks; Arm it in rags, a pigmy's straw doth pierce it. None does offend, none, I say none; I'll able 'em: Take that of me, my friend, who have the power To seal the accuser's lips. Get thee glass eyes; And, like a scurvy politician, seem To see the things thou dost not. Now, now, now, now; Pull off my boots; harder, harder; so. If thou wilt weep my fortunes, take my eyes; I know thee well enough; thy name is Gloucester: Thou must be patient; we came crying hither: Thou know'st the first time that we smell the air We waul and cry. I will preach to thee: mark. When we are born, we cry that we are come To this great stage of fools. This' a good block! It were a delicate stratagem to shoe A troop of horse with felt; I'll put it in proof, And when I have stol'n upon these sons-in-law, Then, kill, kill, kill, kill, kill, kill! No rescue? What! a prisoner? I am even The natural fool of fortune. Use me well; You shall have ransom. Let me have surgeons; I am cut to the brains. No seconds? All myself? Why this would make a man a man of salt, To use his eyes for garden water-pots, Ay, and laying autumn's dust. I will die bravely as a bridegroom. What! I will be jovial: come, come; I am a king, My masters, know you that? Then there's life in it. Nay, an you get it, you shall get it by running. Sa, sa, sa, sa You do me wrong to take me out o' the grave; Thou art a soul in bliss; but I am bound Upon a wheel of fire, that mine own tears Do scald like molten lead. You are a spirit, I know; when did you die? Where have I been? Where am I? Fair day-light? I am mightily abus'd. I should even die with pity To see another thus. I know not what to say. I will not swear these are my hands: let's see; I feel this pin prick. Would I were assur'd Of my condition! Pray, do not mock me: I am a very foolish fond old man, Fourscore and upward, not an hour more or less; And, to deal plainly, I fear I am not in my perfect mind. Methinks I should know you and know this man; Yet I am doubtful: for I am mainly ignorant What place this is, and all the skill I have Remembers not these garments; nor I know not Where I did lodge last night. Do not laugh at me; For, as I am a man, I think this lady To be my child Cordelia. Be your tears wet? Yes, faith. I pray, weep not: If you have poison for me, I will drink it. I know you do not love me; for your sisters Have, as I do remember, done me wrong: You have some cause, they have not. Am I in France? Do not abuse me. You must bear with me. Pray you now, forget and forgive: I am old and foolish. No, no, no, no! Come, let's away to prison; We two alone will sing like birds i' the cage: When thou dost ask me blessing, I'll kneel down, And ask of thee forgiveness: so we'll live, And pray, and sing, and tell old tales, and laugh At gilded butterflies, and hear poor rogues Talk of court news; and we'll talk with them too, Who loses and who wins; who's in, who's out; And take upon's the mystery of things, As if we were God's spies: and we'll wear out, In a wall'd prison, packs and sets of great ones That ebb and flow by the moon. Upon such sacrifices, my Cordelia, The gods themselves throw incense. Have I caught thee? He that parts us shall bring a brand from heaven, And fire us hence like foxes. Wipe thine eyes; The goujeres shall devour them, flesh and fell, Ere they shall make us weep: we'll see 'em starve first. Come. Howl, howl, howl, howl! O! you are men of stones: Had I your tongues and eyes, I'd use them so That heaven's vaults should crack. She's gone for ever. I know when one is dead, and when one lives; She's dead as earth. Lend me a looking-glass; If that her breath will mist or stain the stone, Why, then she lives. This feather stirs; she lives! if it be so, It is a chance which does redeem all sorrows That ever I have felt. Prithee, away. A plague upon you, murderers, traitors all! I might have sav'd her; now, she's gone for ever! Cordelia, Cordelia! stay a little. Ha! What is 't thou sayst? Her voice was ever soft, Gentle and low, an excellent thing in woman. I kill'd the slave that was a hanging thee. Did I not, fellow? I have seen the day, with my good biting falchion I would have made them skip: I am old now, And these same crosses spoil me. Who are you? Mine eyes are not o' the best: I'll tell you straight. This is a dull sight. Are you not Kent? He's a good fellow, I can tell you that; He'll strike, and quickly too. He's dead and rotten. I'll see that straight. You are welcome hither. Ay, so I think. And my poor fool is hang'd! No, no, no life! Why should a dog, a horse, a rat, have life, And thou no breath at all? Thou'lt come no more, Never, never, never, never, never! Pray you, undo this button: thank you, sir. Do you see this? Look on her, look, her lips, Look there, look there! 